# PopCart Campaign Analysis

PopCart is an e-commerce app that has taken the Philippines by storm. 

### Problem
PopCart would like to uncover the effectiveness of its marketing campaigns in driving clicks that generate sales. These are the questions that need to be answered by this investigation:
1. What is the overall click-through rate (CTR) for the campaigns launched by the company?
2. What is the CTR for each product category?
3. What percentage of the total revenue generated during campaign periods is contributed by female customers?
4. Which campaign has generated the most impressions?
5. How many unique users per location viewed the campaign with the most impressions?
6. What are the total impressions and CTR for each product category per user segment? Suggest a marketing strategy that utilizes this information.

The dataset can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1XUZzEkIqvdpNdNwWIklYFWBDkp-ZAN7j?usp=drive_link).

### Methodology
The dataset given was thoroughly investigated and the data was processed through SQL and counter-checked using Excel functions. The quantitative methodology was utilized in this case as it involves the analysis of numerical data. 
Through this methodology, patterns, and trends were uncovered that would be beneficial in answering the goals, measuring, and analyzing the effectiveness of the digital marketing campaigns that PopCart had invested in. 
Lastly, by implementing a quantitative methodology, insights and recommendations will be formulated that will help boost PopCart’s campaign performance, conversion, and sales. 

#### SQL Queries
- [Data Cleaning](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uIyINIZi2ruZmJ8U7gkKMSCDhRW8dgLC/view?usp=drive_link)
- Answers

### Findings
#### 1. What is the overall click-through rate (CTR) for the campaigns launched by the company?

The pie chart here shows the number of clicks and no clicks on each impression generated by the campaigns. According to this data, the average CTR for eCommerce search ads is 2.69%, for display ads the average is 0.51% and the CTR for email is 2.07%. The PopCart campaigns generated an overall CTR of 38.71%. If we were to compare this CTR with the industry benchmark, it shows that the campaigns launched by PopCart are effective.

#### 2. What is the CTR for each product category? 

The table and the chart here imply that the Electronics & Gadgets product category is the one that generates the most CTR despite having the least number of impressions. This trend strongly suggests that customers are most interested in Electronics & Gadgets. According      to the data from eworldtrade and Locad, Electronics & Gadgets are the top-selling product categories in the Philippines, and based on our chart and analysis, the data from the PopCart campaigns further aligns with this finding.

#### 3. What percentage of the total revenue generated during campaign periods is contributed by female customers?

Based on the data presented, Female customers only contributed 2.77% of the total revenue. The contribution of Male customers is much higher, having 17.64% of the total revenue. This can be attributed to the fact that the category with the highest CTR as shown in Figure 2 is Electronic and Gadgets which dominantly appeals to male customers. 

To further support this finding from PopCart’s data, there is a study conducted by Standard Insights that suggests that males are more likely to buy consumer electronics online than females.

However, according to this data from Standard Insights and Spiralytics, 72%+ of Filipino online shoppers are female. They are also most likely to buy various online products. Taking this into account and its revenue potential, we should look into designing and launching female-centric digital marketing campaigns. 

#### 4. Which campaign has generated the most impressions?

Of all of the campaigns, the '12 Days of Christmas Deals' generated the most impression because of the gift-giving tradition in the country. During this season, Christmas has the potential to leverage the festive spirit, high consumer spending, and emotional connections. Christmas is also a highly social time, meaning people are spending more time on social platforms for sharing and searching for holiday experiences, gift ideas, and purchases. More time on social platforms means increased consumer engagement.

#### 5. How many unique users per location viewed the campaign with the most impressions?

Looking at the given data, Metro Manila aces the Mindanao region by a small margin. The first serves as the bustling political, economic, and cultural hub of the country and the latter offers a contrasting experience.  While the unique users between regions may differ in their daily experiences, interests, and lifestyles, they share the same denominator, which is the love of giving during the Christmas Season.

Moreover, this is also a good indication of the economic growth for Mindanao and Visayas as they can almost match the data of Metro Manila. It has been noted from Spiralytics data that businesses had wanted to explore the untapped market of Philippine Provinces and as part of the delivery improvements of e-commerce platforms, establishing logistical routes outside of the Greater Manila Area would be a great way to expand their reach. 

#### 6. What are the total impressions and CTR for each product category per user segment?

Since there is a lot of data to be visualized, the answer to this question is presented as a Dashboard. Dashboards are customizable, visually appealing, easy to comprehend, and support data-driven decision-making. Therefore it will be much easier for the client to understand the results per category and/or rank.

Based on the data above, in all user segments, the product category Sports and Outdoors has the most impression while Electronics and Gadgets have the highest CTR despite its low count of impressions.

High impressions don’t usually equate to high CTR or high conversion to sales, in which Sports and Outdoors have a lower CTR. We also found out that the male population contributes more to the sales generated by the campaigns. 

When it comes to product popularity for the Region user segment, it is notable that the Sports and Outdoors product category is highly in demand in the Region of Mindanao. For Filipinos located in Metro Manila, they are more interested in Health and Beauty products and Apparel and Accessories for North Luzon. For the Visayas region, there are two product categories popular in that location which are Home & Garden and Electronics & Gadgets.

Based on this Spiralytics report, 38% of e-commerce purchases occur in Metro Manila. However, given the high demand in the Mindanao region and other regions in the Philippines, selling to these provinces and catering to the customers within this area would be a good expansion and could potentially boost product sales. 

For the Gender user segment’s product popularity, both males and females are highly interested in Sports & Outdoors. Coming at 2nd is Health & Beauty products. Ranking number 3 is Apparel & Accessories. For 4th and 5th, we have Home & Garden and Electronics & Gadgets respectively. 

Even if Electronics & Gadgets rank least popular in this graph, it should be noted that this is the most in-demand product category in the Philippines (as previously mentioned in Q2). Thus, launching more campaigns promoting these products can potentially boost PopCart’s sales.

Lastly, for the age groups user segments —- Sports & Outdoors, Health & Beauty, and Electronics & Gadgets are most popular for 35 - 44 years old (ranking 1st, 2nd, and 5th). The other most prevalent age group is 25 - 34 years old which are highly interested in Apparel & Accessories and Home & Garden (ranking 3rd and 4th).

Based on the reports from Statista, Locad, and Spiralytics, more than half of Filipino online shoppers are of the younger generation ranging from 25 to 34 years old. Even if this age group had ranked 3rd and 4th place in this analysis, there is a huge potential to utilize the spending capacity of the younger generation which is why PopCart should launch more campaigns that focus on this demographic. 




   



